Frequently Asked Questions for World of Maps Clip ArtCustomizing Microsoft PowerPoint Maps for Windows or Macintosh	• 	Can I edit my map in PowerPoint? 	• 	How do I customize the PowerPoint Maps for my sales presentation? 	• 	I want to pull several states out of the main map to highlight them, how do I do this? 	• 	How do I enlarge a state or county map? 	• 	How do I enlarge a group of states or counties? 	•	How do I color and individual state or country?	•	How do we divide a state into two territories and color them differently?	•	How do we highlight a city within a state?	•	Are there stars or circles I can use to show my sales offices?Using Our Maps	• 	Can I edit and customize these Maps? 	• 	How do I open and use my Map? 	• 	Can I edit the PowerPoint and EPS Maps? 	• 	How do I place and edit Gif and JPG files? 	• 	How do I open a PowerPoint Map? 	• 	Do you have USA county Maps? Customizing Microsoft PowerPoint Maps Can I edit my map in PowerPoint? Yes, our maps can be completely edited in PowerPoint. Every state, county, country or text block is an individual editable element. They can be colored, customized, move or deleted elements as you want. PowerPoint has a very nice collection of editing and drawing tools, located either along the bottom or along the side of your screen. How do I customize the PowerPoint Maps for my sales presentation? All of our PowerPoint maps have individual elements that can be colored or moved or changed to highlight a section. 1. Click on the element; state, county or country, with your cursor to select it. You will see eight little white boxes or handles around the outside of the map to tell you it is selected. 2. When the element you want to color is selected, CLICK on the FILL MENU, the one with the paint bucket, near the right center of the TOOL BAR at the bottom of your slide and choose a color. You can also change lines, add drop shadows, edit or add text. I want to pull several states out of the main map to highlight them, how do I do this? 1. Holding down the SHIFT key allows you to select several states at the same time. Using your Cursor, click on the states you want to move.2. Once you have the states selected, release the SHIFT key and while still holding down the Mouse Button drag the selected items away from the main map.3. These states can now be customized using the tools in the DRAW TOOL BAR, you can change color, or line weight or fill pattern.4. To keep this selection together after you have customized it you should GROUP them. You might need to reselect if you don’t see the little handles. GROUP is located in the DRAW Pop up menu. How do I enlarge or reduce a state or county map? To enlarge a single state select it with the cursor. Place your cursor over one of the corner handles of the selected map. Click on the handle, hold down the mouse button and drag in a 45 degree diagonal motion, the map will enlarge. Holding down the SHIFT key, will keep the map proportional as you change its size. How do I enlarge or reduce a group of states or counties? To enlarge several states or counties you need to GROUP them together.1. Hold down the Shift key and using the pointer CLICK on the states you want to enlarge together. 2. Once the states are selected click on the DRAW popup menu in the TOOL BAR along the bottom and choose GROUP. 3. You will now see just 8 handles on your selected group. Place your pointer over one of the lower left or right corner handles. Click, and hold down the mouse button and drag the handle in a diagonal 45 degree direction. This will enlarge the group. Release your mouse button when you have the correct size. Pulling out, the group will enlarge, moving in towards the center it will reduce. Holding down the SHIFT key will keep things proportional. 4. Text elements will need to be re-adjusted manually, they will move to the correct place but in PowerPoint they do not scale up or down. You may also need to UNGROUP them and move them where needed. The text can be resized using the Font Tools along the top of the screen.How do I color and individual state or country?Select the state or country with the pointer, you will see the little handles around it, select a color from the Fill Bucket in the Tool Bar along the bottom of the slide. How do we divide a state into two territories and color them differently?PowerPoint isn't really a drawing program but we have found a fairly effective way of doing this. The easiest way is to trace over the outline of the state with one of the drawing tools and then filling in this new section with a different color. Basically you are laying a partial state outline on top of the original.The drawing tools are located in the AUTO SHAPES pop up menu in the DRAWING TOOL BAR. In AUTO SHAPES select LINES, we like the middle line on the bottom row, the FREE FORM LINE tool. With this line tool selected you can now trace over the map making a complete closed path by clicking point by point. Bring the line back to the beginning point and give two quick clicks and you will have an object that can be filled with a new color.To make this easier locate the Zoom Box in the upper right hand corner of the top tool bar and select 300 or 400% so you can really see what is going on.  If you need to you can adjust the points by selecting the new object with your pointer and choosing EDIT POINTS  from the DRAW popup menu on the far left of the tool bar.  Also make sure SNAP TO GRID is not checked. This method isn't perfect but will work pretty well and allows you to set up the partial territories.If you are using the EPS Adobe Illustrator version of our maps you can use the SCISSORS tool and cut the border and then rejoin the lines giving you two halves.How do we highlight a city within a state?One possible way to highlight a city would be to put a circle or box or custom shape around or near it.Look in the AUTO SHAPES Pop Up box in the Drawing Tool Bar. PowerPoint gives you lots of pre-drawn shapes from boxes, to arrows, to stars, many different kinds. Select the AUTO SHAPES menu and choose one of the categories and then one of the shapes.Take your pointer and click, hold and drag to generate the shape, dragging allows you to make it bigger or smaller, holding down the SHIFT Key keeps it proportional. Once it is drawn you can change the fill color or pattern or no fill at all just an outline, and then move it where you want.  You may need to put it in front of or behind another object. This is done by using the ORDER option in the DRAW pop up menu. You can Send to Front, Send Backward, etc.Are there stars or circles I can use to show my sales offices?Yes, PowerPoint has an excellent collection of stars, arrows, circles, etc, that you can use to highlight office locations.Look in the AUTO SHAPES Pop Up box in the Drawing Tool Bar. PowerPoint gives you lots of pre-drawn shapes from boxes, to arrows, to stars, many different kinds. Select the AUTO SHAPES menu and choose one of the categories and then one of the shapes.Take your pointer and click, hold and drag to generate the shape, dragging allows you to make it bigger or smaller, holding down the SHIFT Key keeps it proportional. Once it is drawn you can change the fill color or pattern or no fill at all just an outline, and then move it where you want.  Using Our MapsCan I edit and customize these Maps? Yes, our PowerPoint and EPS maps are very flexible and can be easily edited. Each element is a separate object that can be customized. You can edit EPS maps in Adobe Illustrator, CorelDraw, Freehand, Flash or similar applications. The PowerPoint maps are regular PowerPoint slides. Each map is made of individual elements that can be filled with color, pulled out to highlight an area and/or customize using all of the drawing tools along the bottom of your slide window. The GIF and JPG maps are bitmap graphics and can be edited in Adobe PhotoShop, PaintBrush or similar applications. How do I open and use my Map? Some of our maps can be used directly; others need to be opened in a certain way. POWERPOINT maps are for PC/Windows or Macintosh PowerPoint from Microsoft. Our PowerPoint maps are full normal PowerPoint slides with the map in the slide. Once the map has been downloaded to your hard drive it is opened just like any normal PowerPoint file. The elements in the maps are ready to edit and change. Just select them with the pointer and choose some task from the Drawing bar along the bottom. See below for more details. Occasionally some elements have been grouped together to make the map easier to deal with. To edit these maps you need to SELECT it with your pointer and then ungroup it using the UNGROUP command in the DRAW popup menu on the bottom far left of your screen. Deselect the map and you can now customize any element EPS maps for both the Mac and PC need to be opened from inside an illustration or drawing program, such as Adobe Illustrator, CorelDraw, MacroMedia Freehand or Flash. EPS files download as text, but once they are opened inside an illustration program and saved in EPS format, they are ready to go or be edited. Use the OPEN command in the pull down FILE menu to open your Map. Do not use the PLACE command or double click to open your Map until they have been saved as EPS files. GIF and JPG maps will work just fine after downloading if you use the PLACE or INSERT GRAPHICS commands to put these files into your document. The GIF files are perfect for developing web pages. To open in Photoshop or PaintBrush use the OPEN command.Can I edit the PowerPoint and EPS Maps? Yes. After the files are opened in Powerpoint or an illustration/drawing program, the maps can be edited. Every element is a separate object and can be customized to fit your needs. You can edit your EPS maps in Adobe Illustrator, CorelDraw, or Macromedia Freehand. The PowerPoint maps are full PowerPoint files with individual elements that are completely editable. To customize use the drawing tools along the bottom of your slide. How do I place and edit Gif and JPG files? The GIF and JPG maps are bitmapped graphics. They can be edited in programs like Adobe Photoshop and Microsoft Paintbrush. These maps should download without any problems and be placed in desktop publishing programs using the place or get graphics commands. How do I open a PowerPoint Map? You can either double click on the file icon on your hard drive or open the file from inside PowerPoint using the OPEN command in the FILE pull down menu. Do you have USA county Maps? Yes we do. Our maps come in PowerPoint format for PC/Windows or Macintosh PowerPoint. Every county is an individual element that can be customized and colored for your sales presentation. Our county maps come with text names that can be deleted if you want. The PowerPoint maps come two ways; each state with all of the counties enlarged to fit a slide and also a set that can be fitted back together to build regional state areas with their counties.We also offer them in EPS format for use in Adobe Illustrator, CorelDraw, Macromedia Freehand or Flash for both Macintosh and PC. Every county is an individual element that can be customized and colored for your sales presentation. Our county maps come with text names that can be deleted if you want. The EPS counties can be fitted back together to form regional areas.In addition we have a complete national county map in both PowerPoint and Adobe Illustrator with all 50 states and over 3,000 counties.  And in PowerPoint a set of county maps that we broke up into regions to help you get started with your project. These map does not come with text labels but they can be added in from the individual state county maps. 